docs/wiki/feature/hellfire.md, before:

---
layout: wiki
title: Hellfire
description: AGM-114K Hellfire Missiles
group: feature
category: equipment
parent: wiki
mod: ace
version:
  major: 3
  minor: 10
  patch: 0
---

## 1. Overview

### 1.1 Guidance
Hellfire missile is a semi-active laser guided weapon.
It requires an observer (either the launch platform or an external source) to provide laser designation.

### 1.2 Attack profiles
Missile does not need line of sight to target when fired and can Lock-On-After-Launch (can also delay lasing target).
This and the attack profile used will effect missile's flight and max altitude.
- LOBL: Lock-On-Before-Launch, standard top attack.
- LOAL-DIR: Missile flies with a low altitude until acquiring a laser.
- LOAL-LOW: Missile immediately gains ~90m altitude.
- LOAL-HI: Missile immediately gains ~300m altitude.

## 2. Usage
- Switching to the hellfire weapon will show additional information about the weapon in weapon status display.
- Shows: lock mode, laser code and a laser receiver indicator.  E.G. `LOAL-DIR    CODE: 1111`
- Laser receiver indicator turns red when it detects a laser pulse set the the current code.
- Cycle attack profiles with vehicle's ACE3 Interaction Menu or with the missile guidance "Cycle Fire Mode" keybind (default: <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd>)

## 3 Adding to vehicles
- Easiest way to add is via the 1.70 Pylons system.
- Hellfires can also be added to other vehicles via config or script.

### 3.1 Classnames
- Weapon: `ace_hellfire_launcher`
- Magazines: `6Rnd_ACE_Hellfire_AGM114K`
- Pylon Magazines: `PylonMissile_1Rnd_ACE_Hellfire_AGM114K`, `PylonRack_1Rnd_ACE_Hellfire_AGM114K`, `PylonRack_3Rnd_ACE_Hellfire_AGM114K`, `PylonRack_4Rnd_ACE_Hellfire_AGM114K`

### 3.2 Script Example
- Adding hellfires to the Cessna Civilian Plane:

```
if (local this) then {
    this addWeaponTurret ["ace_hellfire_launcher", [-1]];
    this addMagazineTurret ["6Rnd_ACE_Hellfire_AGM114K", [-1]];
};
```

## 4 Automaticly adding a laser designator
- Can automaticly add a laser designator if hellfire launcher is present
- Ideal for pylon dynamic loadouts

```cpp
class myChopper: HeliBase {
    ace_hellfire_addLaserDesignator = 1;
};
```

## 5. Dependencies

{% include dependencies_list.md component="hellfire" %}

Commit message:

Add AGM-114L Active Radar Homing Hellfire (#7337)
* Create AGM-114L

* If we lose LOS dont continue tracking magically Allow for datalinked targets to donate data to the missile.

* Update documentation

* RHS 2x hellfire compatability

* Make ARH more realistic by not allowing to switch targets after firing

* Fix filename. Change Hellfire attack profile to lead target. Switch to two LOS checks.

We check two Line's of Sight to ensure that we are 100% gone from the target. A raw LOS check will be blocked by bushes and light trees while the checkVisibility wont while on the otherhand smoke will block a visiblity check but not a raw LOS check. We get best of both worlds with this.
I changed the attack profile so that it will lead moving targets. This isnt needed with the laser version because the user will "lead" the target if needed, but with the radar scan we have velocity information so we might as well lead the target as much as possible

* Change function calls to FUNC macro. Slightly change radar logic. Up poll frequency to 7hz

Instead of the missile immediately going active when the shooter doesn't have radar, check if targets are in datalink. If they are, use the datalink to guide the missile instead of its internal radar.

* Add logic for missiles launched without target

If a missile is fired without a locked target, it will immediately go active and target the first thing its seeker picks up. This is an incredibly dangerous trait of active radar homing missiles and is so in this implementation. Be careful!

* Change from `exitWith` to basic `then`

Legacy code that never got changed. This is essentially what happened before

* Update CfgMagazineWells.hpp

Co-authored-by: PabstMirror <pabstmirror@gmail.com>

docs/wiki/feature/hellfire.md, after:

---
layout: wiki
title: Hellfire
description: AGM-114K Hellfire Missiles
group: feature
category: equipment
parent: wiki
mod: ace
version:
  major: 3
  minor: 10
  patch: 0
---

## 1. Overview

### 1.1 AGM-114K/N Guidance
The AGM-114K/N Hellfire is a semi-active laser guided weapon. It requires an observer (either the launch platform or an external source) to provide laser designation.

### 1.2 AGM-114L Guidance
The AGM-114L Hellfire is an active-radar homing guided weapon. It is fire and forget as long as you lock a target initially. This does not require an external laser designation
The missile uses an external radar source to guide the missile towards the target. If this radar lock is dropped or if it gets within range of the target, it switches to an internal radar to guide itself for the terminal phase.

### 1.3 Attack profiles
Missile does not need line of sight to target when fired and can Lock-On-After-Launch (can also delay lasing target).
This and the attack profile used will effect missile's flight and max altitude.
- LOBL: Lock-On-Before-Launch, standard top attack.
- LOAL-DIR: Missile flies with a low altitude until acquiring a laser.
- LOAL-LOW: Missile immediately gains ~90m altitude.
- LOAL-HI: Missile immediately gains ~300m altitude.

## 2.1 AGM-114K/N Usage
- Switching to the hellfire weapon will show additional information about the weapon in weapon status display.
- Shows: lock mode, laser code and a laser receiver indicator.  E.G. `LOAL-DIR    CODE: 1111`
- Laser receiver indicator turns red when it detects a laser pulse set the the current code.
- Cycle attack profiles with vehicle's ACE3 Interaction Menu or with the missile guidance "Cycle Fire Mode" keybind (default: <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd>)

## 2.2 AGM-114L Usage
- Switching to the hellfire weapon will show additional information about the weapon in weapon status display.
- Shows: lock mode. E.G. `LOAL-HI`
- Cycle attack profiles with vehicle's ACE3 Interaction Menu or with the missile guidance "Cycle Fire Mode" keybind (default: <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd>)
- Lock onto a target using the default ARMA targeting (default: <kbd>T</kbd>)
- Once you fire the missile you can either stay locked on or abandon the lock and let the missile guide itself

## 3 Adding to vehicles
- Easiest way to add is via the 1.70 Pylons system.
- Hellfires can also be added to other vehicles via config or script.

### 3.1 Classnames
- Weapon: `ace_hellfire_launcher`
- Magazines: `6Rnd_ACE_Hellfire_AGM114K`
- Pylon Magazines: `PylonMissile_1Rnd_ACE_Hellfire_AGM114K`, `PylonRack_1Rnd_ACE_Hellfire_AGM114K`, `PylonRack_3Rnd_ACE_Hellfire_AGM114K`, `PylonRack_4Rnd_ACE_Hellfire_AGM114K`

### 3.2 Script Example
- Adding hellfires to the Cessna Civilian Plane:

```
if (local this) then {
    this addWeaponTurret ["ace_hellfire_launcher", [-1]];
    this addMagazineTurret ["6Rnd_ACE_Hellfire_AGM114K", [-1]];
};
```

## 4 Automaticly adding a laser designator
- Can automaticly add a laser designator if hellfire launcher is present
- Ideal for pylon dynamic loadouts

```cpp
class myChopper: HeliBase {
    ace_hellfire_addLaserDesignator = 1;
};
```

## 5. Dependencies

{% include dependencies_list.md component="hellfire" %}
