documentation/development/ace3-events-system.md, before:

---
layout: wiki
title: ACE3 Events System
group: development
parent: wiki
order: 3
---

## 1. Event Handlers

Event handlers in ACE3 are implemented through our event system. They should be used to trigger or allow triggering of specific functionality.

The commands are listed below.

* `[eventName, eventCodeBlock] call ace_common_fnc_addEventHandler` <br/> adds an event handler with the event name and returns the event handler id.
* `[eventName, args] call ace_common_fnc_globalEvent` <br/> calls an event with the listed args on all machines, the local machine, and the server.
* `[eventName, args] call ace_common_fnc_serverEvent` <br/> calls an event just on the server computer (dedicated or self-hosted).
* `[eventName, targetObject(s), args] call ace_common_fnc_targetEvent` <br/> calls an event just on the targeted object or list of objects.
* `[eventName, args] call ace_common_fnc_localEvent` <br/> calls an event just on the local machine, useful for inter-module events.

Events can be removed or cleared with the following commands.

* `[eventName, eventHandlerId] call ace_common_fnc_removeEventHandler` <br/> will remove a specific event handler of the event name, using the ID returned from `ace_common_fnc_addEventHandler`.
* `[eventName] call ace_common_fnc_removeAllEventHandlers` <br/> will remove all event handlers for that type of event.

### 1.1 Synchronized Events

* `[eventName, eventCodeBlock, ttlNumberOrCodeBlock] call ace_common_fnc_addSyncedEventHandler` <br/> adds a globally synchronized event handler which will expire events after the provided TTL, or the code returns true.
* `[eventName] call ace_common_fnc_removeSyncedEventHandler` <br/> will remove a specific event handler of the event name, using the ID returned from `ace_common_fnc_addSyncedEventHandler`.
* * `[eventName, args, ttlNumberOrCodeBlock] call ace_common_fnc_syncedEvent` <br/> calls a global synchronized event, which will also be run on JIP players unless it has expired; event will expire after the provided TTL, or the code returns true.

### 1.2 Pattern:

```c++
// tapper machine
["tapShoulder", [_target], [otherArguments]] call EFUNC(common,targetEvent);

// target machine XEH_preInit.sqf
PREP(onTapShoulder);
["tapShoulder", FUNC(onTapShoulder) ] call EFUNC(common,addEventHandler);
```

### 1.3 Listenable Event List:

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Event Key</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Source(s)</th>
            <th>Passed Parameter(s) (_this)</th>
            <th>Locality</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
         <tr>
            <td>"playerChanged"</td>
            <td>`player` changed (zeus/respawn)</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_newPlayer, _oldPlayer]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>"PlayerJIP"</td>
            <td>Player was a JIP player, and `player` object is now created.</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_player]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>
        </tr>    
         <tr>
            <td>"playerInventoryChanged"</td>
            <td>Inventory changed</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>getAllGear-Array</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>  
        </tr>    
         <tr>
            <td>"playerVisionModeChanged"</td>
            <td>Vision mode changed (e.g. NVG on)</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_unit, _newVisionMode]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>  
        </tr>    
         <tr>
            <td>"inventoryDisplayChanged"</td>
            <td>Inventory display opened/closed</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_unit, _isOpen]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>
        </tr>    
         <tr>
            <td>"zeusDisplayChanged"</td>
            <td>Zeus display opened/closed</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_unit, _isOpen]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>
        </tr>    
        <tr>
            <td>"cameraViewChanged"</td>
            <td>Camera view changed</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_unit, _newCameraView]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>    
        <tr>
            <td>"playerVehicleChanged"</td>
            <td>Player vehicle changed</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_unit, _newVehicle]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>    
        <tr>
            <td>"playerTurretChanged"</td>
            <td>Player turret changed</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_unit, _newTurretIndexArray]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>  
        <tr>
            <td>"infoDisplayChanged"</td>
            <td>On info box change (e.g. entering and leaving a vehicle)</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_display, _type]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>  
         <tr>
            <td>"inventoryDisplayLoaded"</td>
            <td>On opening the inventory display</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_display]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>  
         <tr>
            <td>"mapDisplayLoaded"</td>
            <td>On loading the map (briefing and mission start)</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_display, _mapType]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>  
        <tr>
            <td>"interactionMenuOpened"</td>
            <td>Interaction Menu Opened</td>
            <td>interaction</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>    
         <tr>
            <td>"killedByFriendly"</td>
            <td>On TK/Civilian Killed</td>
            <td>respawn</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>"drawing_requestMarkers"</td>
            <td>Request Drawing Markers</td>
            <td>map</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>target</td>
        </tr>  
         <tr>
            <td>"drawing_sendbackMarkers"</td>
            <td>Send Drawing Markers</td>
            <td>map</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>target</td>
        </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>"drawing_addLineMarker"</td>
            <td>Line Drawn</td>
            <td>map</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>global</td>
        </tr>  
         <tr>
            <td>"drawing_removeLineMarker"</td>
            <td>Line Deleted</td>
            <td>map</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>global</td>
        </tr>     
        <tr>
            <td>"flashbangExplosion"</td>
            <td>Flashbang Goes Bang</td>
            <td>grenades</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>target</td>
        </tr> 
    </tbody>
</table>

### 1.4 Callable Event List:

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Event Key</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Parameters</th>
            <th>Owner</th>
            <th>Locality</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
         <tr>
            <td>"ace_fcs_forceChange"</td>
            <td>force FCS updates</td>
            <td>fcs</td>
            <td>fcs</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>
        </tr>   
    </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

add description fields to frontmatter header

documentation/development/ace3-events-system.md, after:

---
layout: wiki
title: ACE3 Events System
description: Event handlers in ACE3 are implemented through our event system. They should be used to trigger or allow triggering of specific functionality.
group: development
parent: wiki
order: 3
---

## 1. Event Handlers

Event handlers in ACE3 are implemented through our event system. They should be used to trigger or allow triggering of specific functionality.

The commands are listed below.

* `[eventName, eventCodeBlock] call ace_common_fnc_addEventHandler` <br/> adds an event handler with the event name and returns the event handler id.
* `[eventName, args] call ace_common_fnc_globalEvent` <br/> calls an event with the listed args on all machines, the local machine, and the server.
* `[eventName, args] call ace_common_fnc_serverEvent` <br/> calls an event just on the server computer (dedicated or self-hosted).
* `[eventName, targetObject(s), args] call ace_common_fnc_targetEvent` <br/> calls an event just on the targeted object or list of objects.
* `[eventName, args] call ace_common_fnc_localEvent` <br/> calls an event just on the local machine, useful for inter-module events.

Events can be removed or cleared with the following commands.

* `[eventName, eventHandlerId] call ace_common_fnc_removeEventHandler` <br/> will remove a specific event handler of the event name, using the ID returned from `ace_common_fnc_addEventHandler`.
* `[eventName] call ace_common_fnc_removeAllEventHandlers` <br/> will remove all event handlers for that type of event.

### 1.1 Synchronized Events

* `[eventName, eventCodeBlock, ttlNumberOrCodeBlock] call ace_common_fnc_addSyncedEventHandler` <br/> adds a globally synchronized event handler which will expire events after the provided TTL, or the code returns true.
* `[eventName] call ace_common_fnc_removeSyncedEventHandler` <br/> will remove a specific event handler of the event name, using the ID returned from `ace_common_fnc_addSyncedEventHandler`.
* * `[eventName, args, ttlNumberOrCodeBlock] call ace_common_fnc_syncedEvent` <br/> calls a global synchronized event, which will also be run on JIP players unless it has expired; event will expire after the provided TTL, or the code returns true.

### 1.2 Pattern:

```c++
// tapper machine
["tapShoulder", [_target], [otherArguments]] call EFUNC(common,targetEvent);

// target machine XEH_preInit.sqf
PREP(onTapShoulder);
["tapShoulder", FUNC(onTapShoulder) ] call EFUNC(common,addEventHandler);
```

### 1.3 Listenable Event List:

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Event Key</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Source(s)</th>
            <th>Passed Parameter(s) (_this)</th>
            <th>Locality</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
         <tr>
            <td>"playerChanged"</td>
            <td>`player` changed (zeus/respawn)</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_newPlayer, _oldPlayer]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>"PlayerJIP"</td>
            <td>Player was a JIP player, and `player` object is now created.</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_player]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>
        </tr>    
         <tr>
            <td>"playerInventoryChanged"</td>
            <td>Inventory changed</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>getAllGear-Array</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>  
        </tr>    
         <tr>
            <td>"playerVisionModeChanged"</td>
            <td>Vision mode changed (e.g. NVG on)</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_unit, _newVisionMode]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>  
        </tr>    
         <tr>
            <td>"inventoryDisplayChanged"</td>
            <td>Inventory display opened/closed</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_unit, _isOpen]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>
        </tr>    
         <tr>
            <td>"zeusDisplayChanged"</td>
            <td>Zeus display opened/closed</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_unit, _isOpen]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>
        </tr>    
        <tr>
            <td>"cameraViewChanged"</td>
            <td>Camera view changed</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_unit, _newCameraView]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>    
        <tr>
            <td>"playerVehicleChanged"</td>
            <td>Player vehicle changed</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_unit, _newVehicle]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>    
        <tr>
            <td>"playerTurretChanged"</td>
            <td>Player turret changed</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_unit, _newTurretIndexArray]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>  
        <tr>
            <td>"infoDisplayChanged"</td>
            <td>On info box change (e.g. entering and leaving a vehicle)</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_display, _type]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>  
         <tr>
            <td>"inventoryDisplayLoaded"</td>
            <td>On opening the inventory display</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_display]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>  
         <tr>
            <td>"mapDisplayLoaded"</td>
            <td>On loading the map (briefing and mission start)</td>
            <td>common</td>
            <td>[_display, _mapType]</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>  
        <tr>
            <td>"interactionMenuOpened"</td>
            <td>Interaction Menu Opened</td>
            <td>interaction</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>    
         <tr>
            <td>"killedByFriendly"</td>
            <td>On TK/Civilian Killed</td>
            <td>respawn</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>"drawing_requestMarkers"</td>
            <td>Request Drawing Markers</td>
            <td>map</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>target</td>
        </tr>  
         <tr>
            <td>"drawing_sendbackMarkers"</td>
            <td>Send Drawing Markers</td>
            <td>map</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>target</td>
        </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>"drawing_addLineMarker"</td>
            <td>Line Drawn</td>
            <td>map</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>global</td>
        </tr>  
         <tr>
            <td>"drawing_removeLineMarker"</td>
            <td>Line Deleted</td>
            <td>map</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>global</td>
        </tr>     
        <tr>
            <td>"flashbangExplosion"</td>
            <td>Flashbang Goes Bang</td>
            <td>grenades</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>target</td>
        </tr> 
    </tbody>
</table>

### 1.4 Callable Event List:

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Event Key</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Parameters</th>
            <th>Owner</th>
            <th>Locality</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
         <tr>
            <td>"ace_fcs_forceChange"</td>
            <td>force FCS updates</td>
            <td>fcs</td>
            <td>fcs</td>
            <td>local</td>
        </tr>
        </tr>   
    </tbody>
</table>
