documentation/development/arma-3-issues.md, before:

---
layout: wiki
title: Arma 3 Issues
group: development
parent: wiki
order: 6
---


Keeping track of Arma 3 issues that need to be fixed. If you want to support us and help raise Bohemia's awareness of those issues, please upvote them:

**Open:**

* [bux578: 0020997: MineDetector equipable in Launcher slot](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=20997)
* [bux578: 0021176: Zeus / Curator Add Remote Controlled Event](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=21176)
* [bux578: 0021469: Add script commands "addPrimaryWeaponMagazine" and "addSecondaryWeaponMagazine"](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=21469)
* [bux578: 0022000: Add/Alter script command to add perfectly configured weapons to cargo](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=22000)
* [commy2: 0021443: Unexpected behavior of += array in configs](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=21443)
* [commy2: 0022671: setVariable is not always JIP persistent](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=22671)
* [CorruptedHeart: 0022318: Can no longer use "MenuBack" shortcut in AddAction](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=22318)
* [James2464: 0023725: All Environment Rocks Should Have PhysX LODs](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=23725)
* [Jaynus: 0023679: Display event handler return values for mouse buttons should be respected](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=23679)
* [Heisenberg: 0023741: Switching between optic modes of a sniper scope (AMS, DMS, MOS) will result in a blurred vision](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=23741)

**Resolved:**

* <del>[Nou: 0020761: Memory points rfemur, lfemur, and other leg memory points returned incorrectly with SQF command selectionPosition](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=20761)</del>
* <del>[commy2: 0023136: isLightOn doesn't recognize destroyed light bulbs for streetlamps](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=23136)</del>

Commit message:

add description fields to frontmatter header

documentation/development/arma-3-issues.md, after:

---
layout: wiki
title: Arma 3 Issues
description: Keeping track of Arma 3 issues that need to be fixed. If you want to support us and help raise Bohemia's awareness of those issues, please upvote them. 
group: development
parent: wiki
order: 6
---


Keeping track of Arma 3 issues that need to be fixed. If you want to support us and help raise Bohemia's awareness of those issues, please upvote them:

**Open:**

* [bux578: 0020997: MineDetector equipable in Launcher slot](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=20997)
* [bux578: 0021176: Zeus / Curator Add Remote Controlled Event](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=21176)
* [bux578: 0021469: Add script commands "addPrimaryWeaponMagazine" and "addSecondaryWeaponMagazine"](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=21469)
* [bux578: 0022000: Add/Alter script command to add perfectly configured weapons to cargo](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=22000)
* [commy2: 0021443: Unexpected behavior of += array in configs](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=21443)
* [commy2: 0022671: setVariable is not always JIP persistent](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=22671)
* [CorruptedHeart: 0022318: Can no longer use "MenuBack" shortcut in AddAction](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=22318)
* [James2464: 0023725: All Environment Rocks Should Have PhysX LODs](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=23725)
* [Jaynus: 0023679: Display event handler return values for mouse buttons should be respected](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=23679)
* [Heisenberg: 0023741: Switching between optic modes of a sniper scope (AMS, DMS, MOS) will result in a blurred vision](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=23741)

**Resolved:**

* <del>[Nou: 0020761: Memory points rfemur, lfemur, and other leg memory points returned incorrectly with SQF command selectionPosition](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=20761)</del>
* <del>[commy2: 0023136: isLightOn doesn't recognize destroyed light bulbs for streetlamps](http://feedback.arma3.com/view.php?id=23136)</del>
