docs/wiki/development/how-to-translate-ace3.md, before:

---
layout: wiki
title: How to Translate ACE3
description: This page describes in short how you can help translating ACE3 into your language. 
group: development
parent: wiki
order: 20
---

This page describes in short how you can help translating ACE3 into your language.

1. If you don't already have a GitHub account create one at [http://github.com](http://github.com)
2. Open the ACE3 repository at [https://github.com/acemod/ACE3](https://github.com/acemod/ACE3)
3. In the top right corner press the `Fork` button
4. You are being redirected to your personal fork, a version that is hosted on your GitHub account (it says "yourUsername/ACE3")
5. Clone that fork to your PC (There are a lot of tools and tutorials how to do this (e.g. [GitHub for Windows](https://windows.github.com)))
6. Download [tabler](https://github.com/bux578/tabler/releases) and extract it somewhere
7. Open the tabler.exe and in the menu click "File > Open language files"
8. Point tabler to the cloned ACE3 directory
9. Start translating
10. When done go to the menu and click "File > Save language files"
11. Commit your changes to your local cloned repository
12. Sync (Push) your commit(s) to your fork
13. Create a Pull Request for your changes

(The last three steps require some git knowledge, but there are a lot of tutorials out there)
[GitHub for Windows help](https://windows.github.com/help.html)


#### Community Translation Guides
**Spanish:** [https://gist.github.com/Legolasindar/bf8a3b09cb835f72501f](https://gist.github.com/Legolasindar/bf8a3b09cb835f72501f)

Commit message:

Add section about looking for existing translation PRs, don't let them leave our homepage

docs/wiki/development/how-to-translate-ace3.md, after:

---
layout: wiki
title: How to Translate ACE3
description: This page describes in short how you can help translating ACE3 into your language. 
group: development
parent: wiki
order: 20
---

This page describes in short how you can help translating ACE3 into your language.

1. If you don't already have a GitHub account create one at [http://github.com](http://github.com){:target="_blank"}
1. Open the ACE3 repository at [https://github.com/acemod/ACE3](https://github.com/acemod/ACE3){:target="_blank"}
1. Take a look at the [open translation pull requests](https://github.com/acemod/ACE3/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3Aarea%2Ftranslations){:target="_blank"} to see if someone is already translating ACE3 into your language 
1. In the top right corner press the `Fork` button
1. You are being redirected to your personal fork, a version that is hosted on your GitHub account (it says "yourUsername/ACE3")
1. Clone that fork to your PC (There are a lot of tools and tutorials how to do this (e.g. [GitHub for Windows](https://windows.github.com){:target="_blank"}))
1. Download [tabler](https://github.com/bux578/tabler/releases){:target="_blank"} and extract it somewhere
1. Open the tabler.exe and in the menu click "File > Open language files"
1. Point tabler to the cloned ACE3 directory
1. Start translating
1. When done go to the menu and click "File > Save language files"
1. Commit your changes to your local cloned repository
1. Sync (Push) your commit(s) to your fork
1. Create a Pull Request for your changes

(The last three steps require some git knowledge, but there are a lot of tutorials out there)
[GitHub for Windows help](https://windows.github.com/help.html){:target="_blank"}


#### Community Translation Guides
**Spanish:** [https://gist.github.com/Legolasindar/bf8a3b09cb835f72501f](https://gist.github.com/Legolasindar/bf8a3b09cb835f72501f){:target="_blank"}
