---
title: ACEREP  &#35;00007
description: Status report on ACE3 version 3.8.1
parent: posts
image: /img/news/160912_grenade.jpg
author: bux
layout: post
---

Just about two month ago we've released 3.7.0. A version that had most of the bugs fixed even before the official release. For the first time we were supplying users interested in helping us with pre release versions of the mod - so called release candidates. Quite a lot of communities tested the several release candidates and provided us with very valuable feedback. Especially on bugs and quirks that are near impossible to test alone.

<!--more-->

A big shoutout to those who helped testing! Thank you.

We've used this approach for 3.8.0 aswell and hope that again most of the bugs have been fixed already and that you can enjoy ACE3 without annoying interruptions.

We will keep this approach for the future and invite you to join to test the release candidates. All information will be posted in our public chat to which you're invited too. You can access it here: [http://slackin.ace3mod.com](http://slackin.ace3mod.com){:target="_blank"} 

So, why didn't we release any minor releases for 3.7.0 (e.g. 3.7.1)? In short: We didn't feel that it was necessary. During and directingly after the release we already had added new, awesome features so that we had to do a major release.

Two new features have made it into 3.8.0 which are blood splatters and ammo box cook off.
Wounded units now will leave more visible trails of blood on the ground which could make for interesting missions like escaping as a wounded soldier who is being tracked down by enemy combatants.
When ammo boxes are destroyed the contained ammunition now will cook off in a multitude of small explosions and the boxes won't just sink into the ground.

With 3.8.0 the map tools will allow you to draw straight lines again. A feature that sadly is missing in vanilla Arma 3.

## The Future things

### Medical rewrite

If you're following ACE3 development on github closely you might already have spotted it: The medical system gets a huge rewrite. That's true, we're completely redoing the medical system. Until now the medical system has been a merge of the AGM and CSE medical systems. The AGM one kind of became what you know as the "basic system" and CSE's respectively the "advanced system". Being two separate systems it was always hard for us to improve one or the other without reworking the other one too. Not an ideal situation. Another issue we will address with this rewrite is the amount of influence a medical condition has on gameplay. An issue we've often heard from different communities aswell. There's an interesting discussion going on github with a lot of different ideas and feature requests. Worth a read. // link to that discussion

With the state machine system that has been introduced in CBA we're able to rewrite the medical system in a better and easier way.
Now it's possible to define all medical conditions as different states and show feedback (visual, audio and textual) during the transitions between states (e.g. "no pain" -> "in pain") or react to sudden changes. All with performance and modularity in mind.

We're really looking forward to the result and how you will like it.

## The End Things

The full changelog for ACE3 v3.8.1 can be found here: [https://github.com/acemod/ACE3/releases/v3.8.1](https://github.com/acemod/ACE3/releases/v3.8.1){:target="_blank"}

We are still in need for translations for some languages within the ACE3 project. Please have a look at [this github issue to track the progress and what languages lack translations](https://github.com/acemod/ACE3/issues/367){:target="_blank"}. Any and all help with this is very appreciated.

Make sure to [follow us on twitter](https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=ace3mod&tw_p=followbutton){:target="_blank"} and to [like our facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/ACE3Mod/){:target="_blank"}.

