documentation/feature/ballistics.md, before:

---
layout: wiki
title: Ballistics
group: feature
parent: wiki
---
# Overview
## Realistic rifle ammunition
Changes include adjusted muzzle velocity, air friction and dispersion based on real life values.
## Body armour nerf
Nerfs protection values of vests, CSAT uniforms and various campaign only gear to more realistic levels comparable to Arma 2 levels.
## Realistic silencers and sub-sonic ammunition
Silencers no longer decrease the muzzle velocity and are generally less effective when used with normal ammunition. They now only remove the muzzle blast and flash. To prevent the crack caused by super sonic projectiles, AGM introduces sub sonic ammunition. This is also fully compatible with AI. Sub sonic ammunition is available for the calibers 5.56mm, 6.5mm and 7.62mm.
## Armour piercing ammunition
Armour piercing rounds have higher penetration values against light armoured targets or other obstacles on the battlefield. Their drawback is a slighly decreased man-stopping power. AP rounds are available for the calibers 5.56mm, 6.5mm and 7.62mm.
## IR-Dim tracer ammunition
IR-Dim ammunition is similar to tracer rounds, but their tracers are only visible using night vision devices.
## M118 Long range ammunition
The M14 EBR now uses ammunition with decreased muzzle velocity and air friction to improve precission on long ranges.
## Flash suppressors
Flash suppressors are similar to sound suppressors and prevent the muzzle flash reducing visibilty without decreasing combat effectiveness. Flash suppressors are available for the calibers 5.56mm, 6.5mm, 7.62mm, .45 ACP and 9mm.

# Usage
Short overview of how to use the feature, e.g. menu options, key bindings, 
instructions. May not apply to all modules.

# Dependencies
List of modules that must be present for this module to work.

Commit message:

Improve ballistics/advanced ballistics docs

documentation/feature/ballistics.md, after:

---
layout: wiki
title: Ballistics
group: feature
parent: wiki
---
# Overview

## Realistic ballistics
Changes include adjusted muzzle velocity, air friction and dispersion based on real life values.

## Weaker body armor
Decreases protection values of vests, CSAT uniforms and various campaign only gear to levels comparable to Arma 2.

## Realistic silencers and sub-sonic ammunition
Silencers no longer decrease the muzzle velocity and are generally less effective when used with normal ammunition. They now only remove the muzzle blast and flash. To prevent the crack caused by super sonic projectiles, AGM introduces sub sonic ammunition. This is also fully compatible with AI. Sub sonic ammunition is available for the calibers 5.56mm, 6.5mm and 7.62mm.

## Armour piercing ammunition
Armour piercing rounds have higher penetration values against light armoured targets or other obstacles on the battlefield. Their drawback is a slighly decreased man-stopping power. AP rounds are available for the calibers 5.56mm, 6.5mm and 7.62mm.

## IR-Dim tracer ammunition
IR-Dim ammunition is similar to tracer rounds, but their tracers are only visible using night vision devices.

## M118 Long range ammunition
The M14 EBR now uses ammunition with decreased muzzle velocity and air friction to improve precision on long ranges.

## Flash suppressors
Flash suppressors are similar to sound suppressors and prevent the muzzle flash reducing visibility without decreasing combat effectiveness. Flash suppressors are available for the calibers 5.56mm, 6.5mm, 7.62mm, .45 ACP and 9mm.

# Dependencies
`ace_common`
