documentation/user/getting-started.md, before:

---
layout: wiki
title: Getting started
group: user
order: 0
parent: wiki
---

<div class="panel callout">
    <h5>Note:</h5>
    <p>This page is currently under construction.</p>
</div>

Downloaded ACE3 and have no idea where to start? This page serves as a document to help new players get started with things like the medical system, or how to adjust your scope.


### 1. Vector 21
*Part of: ace_vector*

ACE3 adds a realistic depiction of the Vector 21 rangefinder to the game. Unlike other rangefinders, it doesn't just magically show you the range to your target, but in exchange allows you to do alot of things with it that the other choices in Arma do not offer. The Vector's functions include, but are not limited to:

- Distance to a target
- Azimuth to a target
- Horizontal and vertical distance to a target
- Distance between 2 targets
- Angle between 2 targets
- Switching between feet and meters
- Switching between degrees and mils
...

The Vector is controlled with 2 keys: the azimuth key and the range key; <kbd>Tab</kbd> and <kbd>R</kbd> by default. First you bring it up like every other binocular in the game and then, while looking through it you can access all the different functions.

The Vector 21 rangefinder has the following usage modes:

1. Slope distance
2. Azimuth
3. Slope distance & Azimuth
4. Horizontal distance and height difference
5. Azimuth & Inclination
6. Distance between two points
7. Horizontal & vertical distance between two points
8. Horizontal distance & azimuth between two points
9. Fall of shot

#### 1. Slope distance
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector1.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Slope distance" />

Press and hold the "Distance" key until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the object and release the key.

#### 2. Azimuth
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector2.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Azimuth" />

Press and hold the "Azimuth" key until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the object and release the key.

#### 3. Slope distance and Azimuth
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector3.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Slope distance and Azimuth" />

Press and hold both the "Distance" and "Azimuth" key until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the object and release both keys.

#### 4. Horizontal distance and height difference
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector4.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Horizontal distance and height difference"/>

Tap the "Distance" key once then press and hold it until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the object and release the key.

#### 5. Azimuth and Inclination
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector5.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Azimuth and Inclination"/>

Tap the "Azimuth" key once then press and hold it until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the object and release the key.

#### 6. Distance between two points
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector6.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Distance between two points"/>

Press and hold the "Distance" key until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the first object and tap the "Azimuth" key while further holding the "Distance" key. The first measurement is confirmed ("1-P" = first point). Sight the second object and release the "Distance" key.

#### 7. Horizontal and vertical distance between two points
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector7.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Horizontal and vertical distance between two points"/>

Tap the "Distance" key once then press and hold it until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the object and tap the "Azimuth" key once. The first measurement is confirmed ("1-P" = first point). Sight the second object and release the "Distance" key.

#### 8. Horizontal distance and azimuth between two points
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector8.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Horizontal distance and azimuth between two points"/>

Press and hold the "Azimuth" key until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the first object and tap the "Distance" key while further holding the "Azimuth" key. The first measurement is confirmed ("1-P" = first point). Sight the second object and release the "Azimuth" key.

#### 9. Fall of shot
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector9.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Fall of shot"/>

Tap the "Azimuth" key once then press and hold it until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the object and tap the "Distance" key while further holding the "Azimuth" key. The first measurement is confirmed ("1-P" = first point). Sight the Fall of shot and release the "Azimuth" key. The left digits display the left (`L`)/right (`r`) correction value in meter and the right digits display the longer (`A` = add)/shorter (`d` = drop) correction value in meter. If the "Distance" key is tapped the height correction values will be displayed (`UP` and `dn`).

Commit message:

add description fields to frontmatter header

documentation/user/getting-started.md, after:

---
layout: wiki
title: Getting started
description: Downloaded ACE3 and have no idea where to start? This page serves as a document to help new players get started with things like the medical system, or how to adjust your scope.
group: user
order: 0
parent: wiki
---

<div class="panel callout">
    <h5>Note:</h5>
    <p>This page is currently under construction.</p>
</div>

Downloaded ACE3 and have no idea where to start? This page serves as a document to help new players get started with things like the medical system, or how to adjust your scope.


### 1. Vector 21
*Part of: ace_vector*

ACE3 adds a realistic depiction of the Vector 21 rangefinder to the game. Unlike other rangefinders, it doesn't just magically show you the range to your target, but in exchange allows you to do alot of things with it that the other choices in Arma do not offer. The Vector's functions include, but are not limited to:

- Distance to a target
- Azimuth to a target
- Horizontal and vertical distance to a target
- Distance between 2 targets
- Angle between 2 targets
- Switching between feet and meters
- Switching between degrees and mils
...

The Vector is controlled with 2 keys: the azimuth key and the range key; <kbd>Tab</kbd> and <kbd>R</kbd> by default. First you bring it up like every other binocular in the game and then, while looking through it you can access all the different functions.

The Vector 21 rangefinder has the following usage modes:

1. Slope distance
2. Azimuth
3. Slope distance & Azimuth
4. Horizontal distance and height difference
5. Azimuth & Inclination
6. Distance between two points
7. Horizontal & vertical distance between two points
8. Horizontal distance & azimuth between two points
9. Fall of shot

#### 1. Slope distance
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector1.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Slope distance" />

Press and hold the "Distance" key until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the object and release the key.

#### 2. Azimuth
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector2.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Azimuth" />

Press and hold the "Azimuth" key until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the object and release the key.

#### 3. Slope distance and Azimuth
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector3.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Slope distance and Azimuth" />

Press and hold both the "Distance" and "Azimuth" key until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the object and release both keys.

#### 4. Horizontal distance and height difference
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector4.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Horizontal distance and height difference"/>

Tap the "Distance" key once then press and hold it until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the object and release the key.

#### 5. Azimuth and Inclination
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector5.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Azimuth and Inclination"/>

Tap the "Azimuth" key once then press and hold it until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the object and release the key.

#### 6. Distance between two points
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector6.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Distance between two points"/>

Press and hold the "Distance" key until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the first object and tap the "Azimuth" key while further holding the "Distance" key. The first measurement is confirmed ("1-P" = first point). Sight the second object and release the "Distance" key.

#### 7. Horizontal and vertical distance between two points
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector7.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Horizontal and vertical distance between two points"/>

Tap the "Distance" key once then press and hold it until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the object and tap the "Azimuth" key once. The first measurement is confirmed ("1-P" = first point). Sight the second object and release the "Distance" key.

#### 8. Horizontal distance and azimuth between two points
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector8.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Horizontal distance and azimuth between two points"/>

Press and hold the "Azimuth" key until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the first object and tap the "Distance" key while further holding the "Azimuth" key. The first measurement is confirmed ("1-P" = first point). Sight the second object and release the "Azimuth" key.

#### 9. Fall of shot
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/wiki/user/vector9.jpg" width="500" height="160" alt="Measuring Fall of shot"/>

Tap the "Azimuth" key once then press and hold it until the red pointing circle appears. Sight the circle on the object and tap the "Distance" key while further holding the "Azimuth" key. The first measurement is confirmed ("1-P" = first point). Sight the Fall of shot and release the "Azimuth" key. The left digits display the left (`L`)/right (`r`) correction value in meter and the right digits display the longer (`A` = add)/shorter (`d` = drop) correction value in meter. If the "Distance" key is tapped the height correction values will be displayed (`UP` and `dn`).
