documentation/user/installation-guide.md, before:

---
layout: wiki
title: Installation Guide
description: Step-by-step guide for installing ACE3
group: user
order: 0
parent: wiki
---

## 1. Overview
This guide will explain how to get ACE3 up and running faster than you can say banana.

## 2. Prerequisites
- Download [CBA](http://www.armaholic.com/page.php?id=18767).
- Download [ACE3](https://github.com/acemod/ACE3/releases/latest).
- Know how to extract .zip files. Use [Google](https://www.google.com) if not sure.

## 3. Installation Guide
- Extract both CBA and ACE3 into your Arma 3 folder. By default this is located in:<br>
32-Bit - `C:/Program Files/Steam/Steamapps/Common/Arma 3/`<br>
64-Bit - `C:/Program Files (x86)/Steam/Steamapps/Common/Arma 3/`
- After extraction you should have the `@ace` and `@CBA_A3` folders inside your Arma 3 folder.
- Launch Arma 3 to start the official game Launcher.
- Click `Mods` and make sure the checkboxes next to `ace` and `CBA_A3` are ticked.
- Click `Play`

## 4. Alternative launch methods

### 4.1 Steam Launch Parameters
- Not supported with the new Arma 3 Launcher

### 4.2 Arma3Sync
- Inspect `Addon Options` and verify the `Addon Search Directories` are leading to your Arma 3 folder.
- Return to the `Addons` tab and click `Refresh`.
- Drag and drop `@ace` and `@CBA_A3` from `Available Addons` into the `Addon Groups` list and make sure the checkboxes are ticked.
- Click `Start Game`

### 4.3 Play withSIX

Commit message:

Doc: Installation-guide - improve
Divide Installation process from Launch process

documentation/user/installation-guide.md, after:

---
layout: wiki
title: Installation Guide
description: Step-by-step guide for installing ACE3
group: user
order: 0
parent: wiki
---

## 1. Overview
This guide will explain how to get ACE3 up and running faster than you can say banana.

## 2. Prerequisites
- Download [CBA](http://www.armaholic.com/page.php?id=18767).
- Download [ACE3](https://github.com/acemod/ACE3/releases/latest).
- Know how to extract .zip files. Use [Google](https://www.google.com) if not sure.

## 3. Install ACE3
- Extract both CBA and ACE3 .zip files into your Arma 3 folder. By default this is located in:<br>
32-Bit - `C:/Program Files/Steam/Steamapps/Common/Arma 3/`<br>
64-Bit - `C:/Program Files (x86)/Steam/Steamapps/Common/Arma 3/`
- After extraction you should have the `@ace` and `@CBA_A3` folders inside your Arma 3 folder.

## 4. Launch Arma 3 with ACE3
- Launch Arma 3 to start the official game Launcher.
- Click `Mods` and make sure the checkboxes next to `ace` and `CBA_A3` are ticked.
- Click `Play`

## 5. Alternative launch methods

### 5.1 Steam Launch Parameters
- Not supported with the new Arma 3 Launcher

### 5.2 Arma3Sync
- Inspect `Addon Options` and verify the `Addon Search Directories` are leading to your Arma 3 folder.
- Return to the `Addons` tab and click `Refresh`.
- Right-click inside `Addon Groups`, click `Create Group` and give it a name.
- Drag and drop `@ace` and `@CBA_A3` from `Available Addons` into the new Group you created inside `Addon Groups` and make sure the checkboxes are ticked.
- Click `Start Game`

### 5.3 Play withSIX
