documentation/missionmaker/classnames.md, before:

---
layout: wiki
title: Classnames
description: A list of all the classnames in ACE3, your wet dream came true.
group: missionmaker
order: 11
parent: wiki
---

### Atragmx 
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name  | type  | 
--------- | --------- | --------- |
ACE_ATragMX | ATragMX  |  ACE_ItemCore |

### Attachable
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | --------- |
ACE_IR_Strobe_Item | IR strobe  | ACE_ItemCore |

### Ballistics
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | --------- |
ACE_100Rnd_65x39_caseless_mag_Tracer_Dim | 6.5mm IR-DIM | Magazine |
ACE_200Rnd_65x39_cased_Box_Tracer_Dim | 6.5mm IR-DIM | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_65x39_caseless_mag_Tracer_Dim | 6.5mm IR-DIM | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_65x39_caseless_green_mag_Tracer_Dim | 6.5mm IR-DIM | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_556x45_Stanag_M995_AP_mag | 5.56mm AP | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_556x45_Stanag_Mk262_mag | 5.56mm Mk262 | Magazine |  
ACE_30Rnd_556x45_Stanag_Mk318_mag | 5.56mm Mk318 | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_556x45_Stanag_Tracer_Dim | 5.56mm IR-DIM | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x51_Mag_Tracer | 7.62mm Tracer | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x51_Mag_Tracer_Dim | 7.62mm IR-DIM | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x51_Mag_SD | 7.62mm SD | Magazine |
ACE_10Rnd_762x51_M118LR_Mag | 7.62mm M118LR | Magazine |
ACE_10Rnd_762x51_Mk316_Mod_0_Mag | 7.62mm Mk316 | Magazine|
ACE_10Rnd_762x51_Mk319_Mod_0_Mag | 7.62mm Mk319 | Magazine |
ACE_10Rnd_762x51_M993_AP_Mag | 7.62mm AP | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x51_M118LR_Mag | 7.62mm M118LR | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x51_Mk316_Mod_0_Mag | 7.62mm Mk316 | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x51_Mk319_Mod_0_Mag | 7.62mm Mk319 | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x51_M993_AP_Mag | 7.62mm AP | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x67_Mk248_Mod_0_Mag | 7.62mm Mk248 | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x67_Mk248_Mod_1_Mag | 7.62mm Mk248 | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x67_Berger_Hybrid_OTM_Mag | 7.62mm OTM | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_65x47_Scenar_mag | 6.5mm Lapua | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_65_Creedmor_mag | 6.5mm CM | Magazine |
ACE_10Rnd_338_300gr_HPBT_Mag |.338 HPBT | Magazine |
ACE_10Rnd_338_API526_Mag |.338 AP | Magazine |
ACE_5Rnd_127x99_Mag | 12.7mm | Magazine |
ACE_5Rnd_127x99_API_Mag | 12.7mm API | Magazine |
ACE_5Rnd_127x99_AMAX_Mag | 12.7mm | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_9x19_mag | 9x19mm | Magazine |
ACE_16Rnd_9x19_mag | 9x19mm | Magazine |
ACE_10Rnd_762x54_Tracer_mag | 7.62mm | Magazine |

### Captive
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_CableTie | cable tie |  ACE_ItemCore |

### Common
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_Banana | banana |  ACE_ItemCore |

### Disposable
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_launch_NLAW_Used_F | used NLAW | Weapon |

### Explosives
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_Clacker| M57 Firing Device |  ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_M26_Clacker| M26 Firing Device |  ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_DefusalKit | Defusal Kit |  ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_DeadManSwitch | Dead Man's Switch |  ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_Cellphone | Cellphone |  ACE_ItemCore |

### Grenades
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_HandFlare_White | M127A1 Hand Held Signal (White) | Grenade |
ACE_HandFlare_Red | M127A1 Hand Held Signal (Red | Grenade |
ACE_HandFlare_Green | M127A1 Hand Held Signal (Green) | Grenade |
ACE_HandFlare_Yellow | M127A1 Hand Held Signal (Yellow) | Grenade |
ACE_M84 | M84 Stun Grenade |

### hearing
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_EarPlugs | Ear Plugs | ACE_ItemCore |

### Kestrel
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_Kestrel4500 | Kestrel 4500NV | ACE_ItemCore |

### Laser pointers
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
acc_pointer_IR | Laser Pointer (red) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_acc_pointer_red | Laser Pointer (green) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_acc_pointer_green_IR | Laser Pointer (green) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_acc_pointer_green | Laser Pointer (green) | Weapon accessory |

### logistics
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_UAVBattery | UAV Battery | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_wirecutter | Wirecutter | ACE_ItemCore |

### Map tools
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_MapTools | Map Tools | ACE_ItemCore |

# Medical
`added in 3.0.0.3`


classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_atropine | Atropin autoinjector | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_fieldDressing | Bandage (Basic) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_elasticBandage | Bandage (Elastic) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_quikclot | Basic Field Dressing (QuikClot) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_bloodIV | Blood IV (1000ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_bloodIV_500 | Blood IV (500ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_bloodIV_250 | Blood IV (250ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_bodyBag | Bodybag | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_epinephrine | Epinephrine autoinjector | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_morphine | Morphine autoinjector | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_packingBandage | Packing Bandage | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_personalAidKit | Personal Aid Kit | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_plasmaIV | Plasma IV (1000ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_plasmaIV_500 | Plasma IV (500ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_plasmaIV_250 | Plasma IV (250ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_salineIV | Saline IV (1000ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_salineIV_500 | Saline IV (500ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_salineIV_250 | Saline IV (250ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_surgicalKit | Surgical Kit | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_tourniquet | Tourniquet (CAT) | ACE_ItemCore |

### Microdagr
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_microDAGR | MicroDAGR GPS | ACE_ItemCore |

### mk6 mortar
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_RangeTable_82mm | 82mm Rangetable | ACE_ItemCore |

### Nightvision
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_NVG_Gen1 | NV Goggles (Gen1) | Nvgs |
ACE_NVG_Gen2 | NV Goggles (Gen2) | Nvgs |
ACE_NVG_Gen3 | NV Goggles (Gen3) | Nvgs |
ACE_NVG_Gen4 | NV Goggles (Gen4) | Nvgs |
ACE_NVG_Wide | NV Goggles (Wide) | Nvgs |


### Optics
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_optic_Arco_2D | ARCO (2D) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_Arco_PIP | ARCO (PIP) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_LRPS_2D | LRPS (2D) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_LRPS_PIP | LRPS (PIP) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_SOS_2D| MOS (2D) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_SOS_PIP | MOS (PIP) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_MRCO_2D | MRCO (2D) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_MRCO_PIP | MRCO (PIP) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_Hamr_2D | RCO (2D) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_Hamr_PIP | RCO (PIP) | Weapon accessory |

### Overheating
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_SpareBarrel | Spare barrel | ACE_ItemCore |

### Parachute
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type  |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_Altimeter | Altimeter Watch | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_NonSteerableParachute | Non-Steerable Parachute | Backpack |

### Vector
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_Vector | Vector 21 | Binoculars |

### Vehicle lock
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_key_master | Vehicle Key: Master | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_key_lockpick | Lockpick | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_key_west | Vehicle Key: West | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_key_east | Vehicle Key: East | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_key_indp | Vehicle Key: Independent | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_key_civ | Vehicle Key: Civilian | ACE_ItemCore |

Commit message:

Documentation pass 6
- Added AMG doc
- Clarified overheating doc
- Getting started remade
- Vector doc moved from getting started to vector
- Classnames updated
- Switchunits doc fixed
- Rangecard doc added

documentation/missionmaker/classnames.md, after:

---
layout: wiki
title: Classnames
description: A list of all the classnames in ACE3, your wet dream came true.
group: missionmaker
order: 11
parent: wiki
---

Everything is ordered alphabetically.

You know an in-game name but want the classname? <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + <kbd>F</kbd>

### Atragmx 
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name  | type  | 
--------- | --------- | --------- |
ACE_ATragMX | ATragMX  |  ACE_ItemCore |

### Attachable
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | --------- |
ACE_IR_Strobe_Item | IR strobe  | ACE_ItemCore |

### Ballistics
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | --------- |
ACE_100Rnd_65x39_caseless_mag_Tracer_Dim | 6.5mm IR-DIM | Magazine |
ACE_200Rnd_65x39_cased_Box_Tracer_Dim | 6.5mm IR-DIM | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_65x39_caseless_mag_Tracer_Dim | 6.5mm IR-DIM | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_65x39_caseless_green_mag_Tracer_Dim | 6.5mm IR-DIM | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_556x45_Stanag_M995_AP_mag | 5.56mm AP | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_556x45_Stanag_Mk262_mag | 5.56mm Mk262 | Magazine |  
ACE_30Rnd_556x45_Stanag_Mk318_mag | 5.56mm Mk318 | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_556x45_Stanag_Tracer_Dim | 5.56mm IR-DIM | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x51_Mag_Tracer | 7.62mm Tracer | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x51_Mag_Tracer_Dim | 7.62mm IR-DIM | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x51_Mag_SD | 7.62mm SD | Magazine |
ACE_10Rnd_762x51_M118LR_Mag | 7.62mm M118LR | Magazine |
ACE_10Rnd_762x51_Mk316_Mod_0_Mag | 7.62mm Mk316 | Magazine|
ACE_10Rnd_762x51_Mk319_Mod_0_Mag | 7.62mm Mk319 | Magazine |
ACE_10Rnd_762x51_M993_AP_Mag | 7.62mm AP | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x51_M118LR_Mag | 7.62mm M118LR | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x51_Mk316_Mod_0_Mag | 7.62mm Mk316 | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x51_Mk319_Mod_0_Mag | 7.62mm Mk319 | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x51_M993_AP_Mag | 7.62mm AP | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x67_Mk248_Mod_0_Mag | 7.62mm Mk248 | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x67_Mk248_Mod_1_Mag | 7.62mm Mk248 | Magazine |
ACE_20Rnd_762x67_Berger_Hybrid_OTM_Mag | 7.62mm OTM | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_65x47_Scenar_mag | 6.5mm Lapua | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_65_Creedmor_mag | 6.5mm CM | Magazine |
ACE_10Rnd_338_300gr_HPBT_Mag |.338 HPBT | Magazine |
ACE_10Rnd_338_API526_Mag |.338 AP | Magazine |
ACE_5Rnd_127x99_Mag | 12.7mm | Magazine |
ACE_5Rnd_127x99_API_Mag | 12.7mm API | Magazine |
ACE_5Rnd_127x99_AMAX_Mag | 12.7mm | Magazine |
ACE_30Rnd_9x19_mag | 9x19mm | Magazine |
ACE_16Rnd_9x19_mag | 9x19mm | Magazine |
ACE_10Rnd_762x54_Tracer_mag | 7.62mm | Magazine |

### Captive
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_CableTie | cable tie |  ACE_ItemCore |

### Common
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_Banana | banana |  ACE_ItemCore |

### Disposable
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_launch_NLAW_Used_F | used NLAW | Weapon |

### Explosives
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_Clacker| M57 Firing Device |  ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_M26_Clacker| M26 Firing Device |  ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_DefusalKit | Defusal Kit |  ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_DeadManSwitch | Dead Man's Switch |  ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_Cellphone | Cellphone |  ACE_ItemCore |

### Grenades
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_HandFlare_White | M127A1 Hand Held Signal (White) | Grenade |
ACE_HandFlare_Red | M127A1 Hand Held Signal (Red | Grenade |
ACE_HandFlare_Green | M127A1 Hand Held Signal (Green) | Grenade |
ACE_HandFlare_Yellow | M127A1 Hand Held Signal (Yellow) | Grenade |
ACE_M84 | M84 Stun Grenade | Grenade |

### hearing
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_EarPlugs | Ear Plugs | ACE_ItemCore |

### Kestrel
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_Kestrel4500 | Kestrel 4500NV | ACE_ItemCore |

### Laser pointers
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
acc_pointer_IR | Laser Pointer (red) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_acc_pointer_red | Laser Pointer (green) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_acc_pointer_green_IR | Laser Pointer (green) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_acc_pointer_green | Laser Pointer (green) | Weapon accessory |

### logistics
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_UAVBattery | UAV Battery | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_wirecutter | Wirecutter | ACE_ItemCore |

### Map tools
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_MapTools | Map Tools | ACE_ItemCore |

# Medical
`added in 3.0.0.3`


classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_atropine | Atropin autoinjector | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_fieldDressing | Bandage (Basic) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_elasticBandage | Bandage (Elastic) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_quikclot | Basic Field Dressing (QuikClot) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_bloodIV | Blood IV (1000ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_bloodIV_500 | Blood IV (500ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_bloodIV_250 | Blood IV (250ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_bodyBag | Bodybag | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_bodyBagObject | Bodybag (packed) | |
ACE_epinephrine | Epinephrine autoinjector | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_morphine | Morphine autoinjector | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_packingBandage | Packing Bandage | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_personalAidKit | Personal Aid Kit | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_plasmaIV | Plasma IV (1000ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_plasmaIV_500 | Plasma IV (500ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_plasmaIV_250 | Plasma IV (250ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_salineIV | Saline IV (1000ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_salineIV_500 | Saline IV (500ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_salineIV_250 | Saline IV (250ml) | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_surgicalKit | Surgical Kit | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_tourniquet | Tourniquet (CAT) | ACE_ItemCore |

### Microdagr
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_microDAGR | MicroDAGR GPS | ACE_ItemCore |

### mk6 mortar
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_RangeTable_82mm | 82mm Rangetable | ACE_ItemCore |

### Nightvision
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_NVG_Gen1 | NV Goggles (Gen1) | Nvgs |
ACE_NVG_Gen2 | NV Goggles (Gen2) | Nvgs |
ACE_NVG_Gen3 | NV Goggles (Gen3) | Nvgs |
ACE_NVG_Gen4 | NV Goggles (Gen4) | Nvgs |
ACE_NVG_Wide | NV Goggles (Wide) | Nvgs |


### Optics
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_optic_Arco_2D | ARCO (2D) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_Arco_PIP | ARCO (PIP) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_LRPS_2D | LRPS (2D) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_LRPS_PIP | LRPS (PIP) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_SOS_2D| MOS (2D) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_SOS_PIP | MOS (PIP) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_MRCO_2D | MRCO (2D) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_MRCO_PIP | MRCO (PIP) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_Hamr_2D | RCO (2D) | Weapon accessory |
ACE_optic_Hamr_PIP | RCO (PIP) | Weapon accessory |

### Overheating
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_SpareBarrel | Spare barrel | ACE_ItemCore |

### Parachute
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type  |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_Altimeter | Altimeter Watch | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_NonSteerableParachute | Non-Steerable Parachute | Backpack |

### Rangecard

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_RangeCard | rangecard | ACE_ItemCore |

### Vector
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_Vector | Vector 21 | Binoculars |

### Vehicle lock
`added in 3.0.0.3`

classname | in game name | type   |
--------- | --------- | ---------
ACE_key_master | Vehicle Key: Master | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_key_lockpick | Lockpick | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_key_west | Vehicle Key: West | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_key_east | Vehicle Key: East | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_key_indp | Vehicle Key: Independent | ACE_ItemCore |
ACE_key_civ | Vehicle Key: Civilian | ACE_ItemCore |
